as you can see I finally got the engine
started it didn't go quite as smoothly
as might be indicated by the video I had
no oil pressure
I had no fuel pressure I had no spark
and when I put gas in the tank it
started to leak I'm gonna walk you
through each of the things I did in
order to get the car started for the
first time and maybe that'll give you
some ideas of problems to avoid when you
have the same situation when I put some
gas in the tank it immediately started
leaking
I got underneath and discovered the
drain plug just needed to be tightened
up a quarter turn or so I then removed
the spark plugs to turn the engine over
the starter motor just to see if I was
getting oil pressure and to see if I was
getting fuel pressure and to check the
spark as it turns out I had none of
those things were working I turned the
car over with a starter motor and there
was no pressure showing on the gauge so
I disconnected the oil pressure gauge
from the tube coming from the engine up
at the firewall I turned it over again
to see if I was any oil was coming out
of that tube and never there was nothing
so I knew I had rebuilt the oil pump and
not primed the pump by putting oil in
the chamber when I had finished so I
dropped the oil pump away from the block
I used the funnel to fill it with some
oil and then tightened it back up again
the next time I turned the car over with
the starter motor I immediately started
getting oil coming out to the oil
instrument gauge tube so I knew I had
oil pressure at that point and connected
that part back up again now that I had
oil pressure I went around to turn the
motor over again to see if I was getting
any fuel pressure
because I still had not gotten any fuel
in the sediment bowl on the fuel pump
turning over even more did not solve
that problem so I decided to take the
fuel pump off just to check to make sure
what the problem was there I had rebuilt
the pump a couple of years ago with a
new kit even though it was an nos pump I
wanted to make sure all the rubber parts
were fresh in there and in taking it
apart I discovered that one of the
bowels was stuck open so I just blew a
little air gently through
and that popped the bow back down and
then it was able to work I put it back
together again
put it back on the car and immediately
started getting fuel being drawn from
the tank but when the fuel sentiment
Bowl got full I started getting a leak
squirting out from around one of the
screws so I took the pump off again
took it apart again and discovered that
when I had put the diaphragm in the
rubber pump part in the middle I had it
stretched a little bit and pulled away
from around one of the screw hole so the
gas was able to leak up and pass the
screw so I put it together this time
making sure there was no tension on the
diaphragm and tightened it down and then
finally had the issue of spark there was
no spark I called my friend Steve with
my mark good morning who had rebuilt the
starter in the generator and distributor
for me and asked him what I should try
he suggested taking a piece of manila
cardboard like file folder and just
rubbing it between the points on the
distributor and see if that might clear
up any corrosion and build up during the
time the car was in storage so I did
that just took a couple of swipes with
the cardboard and immediately I started
getting spark at that point I was able
to start the car I went around to check
all of the fittings and the see if
anything was leaking and make sure
everything was charging properly first
thing I noticed was I had oil leaking
out through the oil filter
and once again the problem similar to
the gas tank was I just need to tighten
the cap down a little bit the oil
pressure is running a little high it
should be running about 15 pounds at
idle and it was running up to about 3035
pounds so I may need to replace the
spring but I want to get the car up to
speed first just to see what kind of
pressure I'm getting in checking the
ammeter I wasn't getting any charge but
I was getting a slight discharge which
would indicate that the generator wasn't
charging so once again I called my
friend Steve and he suggested taking the
regulator and grounding the field
terminal so by connecting a jumper from
the field terminal on the regulator to
ground I was able to show the generator
was charging so that indicated there was
a problem with the field coil in the
regulator I took the cover off of the
regulator and checked the points once
again by rubbing a piece of manila
cardboard between them to see whether or
not there was any kind of corrosion on
those I put it back onto the car and
once again there was no charge from the
generator I called Steve again and he
said needs to be bench test it probably
had to adjust the gap and also adjust
the spring tension on the point so that
they would open and close at the right
time so that was my next step I took the
battery the generator and the regulator
all out to his place where he could hook
him up to a bench test machine and he
could see exactly what the problem was
adjusting my question
that's important
I brought the regulator home put it back
on the car
everything started up the generator is
charging I'm getting the right charge
showing on the ammeter on the instrument
panel and it looks like things are ready
to go as I move into the homestretch
here several projects are coming to a
conclusion I got the last of the chrome
plating back this week also we're making
good progress on completing the interior
I had the seat frames and springs home
this week and I had a little help
getting those cleaned up I also trial
fit the front seat in the body and
adjusted the seat adjustment mechanism
to make sure that it worked properly and
finally we installed the rear fenders
along with a stainless steel bead and I
think they turned out really nice and
older cars that are bolted together
quite often a piece of anti squeak
material webbing was put between the two
pieces of metal when they were bolted
together that way when the car was going
down the road and twisting you wouldn't
hear the metal rubbing together that
material was quite often very thin about
20 thousands and most of the anti squeak
webbing that's available today is much
thicker than that about 60 thousandths
now sometimes this is just too thick to
fit in the place where you're trying to
work it well somebody at one of the
classic car restoration businesses in
town suggested that you use hockey stick
tape it's about ten thousands thick some
couple layers of this equals what was
used originally and it works really well
it also has the advantage of this
adhesive on one side so you can put it
on and it stays while you're bolting the
car together well that's all the time we
have for this week so until we meet
again I'll see you on the road